Position Overview
The Business Development Manager (BDM) is responsible for developing, servicing and managing the business needs of Layfield customers in defined market segments, ensure satisfactory achievement of sales and gross profits. This position liaises closely with key divisional staff including customer service, sales, administration, and operations.
Key Responsibilities
Develop Existing Markets for Assigned Product Lines:

 Requires in-depth technical knowledge relating to the services or products.
 Service and sell products to assigned accounts according to agreed sales policies.
 Ensure all customers are kept up to date with current company products, services and pricing.
 Maintain familiarity with customer’s products to learn potential for Layfield products.
 Develop knowledge of the channels of distribution through which the customer markets his goods.
 Secure from customer and other sources, data on quantities, products, and delivery of plastics whether or not they are marketed by Layfield.
 Recommend methods of sales and promotion.
 Keep advised on credit status of customers.
 Report on quality complaints and resolve settlement of such complaints in accordance established company policy.
 Carry out promotional programs, recommend opportunities to improve such programs.

Developing New Customers and New Markets:

 Provide aggressive client prospecting, project tracking, lead generation for segment.
 Communicate required information necessary to open new accounts.
 Perform market research as required.
 Stay on top of all competitive threats, changes, and trends within defined market segment.
 Ensure all projects are bid on a timely basis and are followed up within a 24-hour period.
 Negotiate the award of all project quotations and tenders on behalf of the company.
 Establish new accounts and market areas through cold calls, mail-outs, etc. for each business unit’s product line and services, following policies and objectives established by the Manager.
 Develop systematic methods of finding own prospect leads and make follow up calls in line with established policies.
 Forward suggestions for possible new products to Business Manager.

Work Relationships:

 Represent the company and customers in a professional and ethical manner at all times.
 Keep the VP Sales & Marketing apprised of activities, including prices, promotional activity, new products, etc. Use account activity reports as necessary.
 Keep price books current and sales literature up to date.
 Develop customer confidence and goodwill.
 May train and at times direct the activities of sales representatives but has no direct supervisory responsibility.

Education & Experience

 Completion of related post-secondary education in Business / Sales or a combination of education and experience will be considered.
 Minimum five (5) years of sales experience with experience in the sector.

Knowledge, Skills & Abilities
Core Competencies

 Works to achieve desired policy and program outcomes, including setting goals and priorities to maximize the use of resources available to consistently deliver results against objectives.
 Assists and serves others to meet their needs. Focuses on discovering those needs and the way to best meet them. Matches customer requirements to existing products and services and/or designs, develops, and customizes additional products and services.
 Maintains own and others attention to internal and external customers’ needs.
 Takes personal responsibility for continuously raising the standard of customer service.

Minimum Qualifications

 Sales experience with a proven track record of success driving sales of industrial products and services.
 Advanced knowledge of client operations – sales will usually require modifying current products/services.
 High degree of competence in written and oral communication.
 Willingness and ability to travel (60%).
 Proven problem-solving abilities.
 Driven, self-starter with superb interpersonal skills.
 Independent but able to work well within a team environment.
 Intermediate Microsoft Office Suite skills.